4.
And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees
came upon them, being grieved that they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the
resurrection from the dead.
And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next day, for it was now
even tide.
Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed, and the number of the men was about
five thousand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders, and scribes, and Annas
the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred
of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem.
And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name have
ye done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders
of Israel, If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what
means he is made whole, be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that
by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead,
even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.
This is the stone, which was set at naught of you builders, which is become the head
of the corner, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name
under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.
Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned
and ignorant men, they marveled.
And they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus, and beholding the man
which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.
But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among
themselves, saying, What shall we do to these men?
For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that
dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
But that it spread no further among the people, let us straightly threaten them, that they
speak henceforth to no man in this name.
And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of
God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.
For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they
might punish them, because of the people.
For all men glorified God for that which was done.
For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing was shewed, and
being let go, they went to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and
elders had said unto them.
And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God, with one accord, and said,
Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all that in them
is, who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage?
And the people imagined vain things.
The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord, and
against his Christ.
For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius
Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together, for to do whatsoever
thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.
And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants, that with all
boldness they may speak thy word, by stretching forth thine hand to heal, and that signs and
wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus.
And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they
were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness.
And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul, neither said
any of them that ought of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all
common, and with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus,
and great grace was upon them all.
Neither was there any among them that lacked, for as many as were possessors of lands or
houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them down
at the apostles' feet, and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need.
And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, which is being interpreted the son
of Consolation, a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it, and brought
the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Chapter 5 But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira
his wife, sold a possession, and kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy
to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles' feet.
But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost, and
to keep back part of the price of the land?
Whilst it remained, was it not thine own?
And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power?
Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart?
Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.
And Ananias, hearing these words, fell down, and gave up the Ghost, and great fear came
on all them that heard these things.
And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and buried him.
And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what was
done, came in, and Peter answered unto her, Tell me, whether ye sold the land for so much?
And she said, Yea, for so much.
Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of
the Lord?
Behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry
thee out.
Then fell she down, straightway at his feet, and yielded up the Ghost.
And the young men came in, and found her dead, and carrying her forth, buried her by her
husband.
And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things.
And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people.
And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
And of the rest there's no man joined himself to them, but the people magnified them.
And believers were the more added to the Lord multitudes both of men and women, insomuch
that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches,
that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.
There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick
and them which were vexed with unclean spirits.
And they were healed every one.
Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him, which is the sect of the
Sadducees, and were filled with indignation, and laid their hands on the apostles, and
put them in the common prison.
But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and brought them forth,
and said, Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in the morning, and taught.
But the high priest came, and they that were with him, and called the council together,
and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison, they returned and told,
saying, The prison truly found we shut, with all safety, and the keepers standing without
before the doors.
But when we had opened, we found no man within.
Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple, and the chief priests heard these
things, they doubted of them whereunto this would grow.
Then came one, and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison, are standing
in the temple, and teaching the people.
Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without violence, for they feared
the people, lest they should have been stoned.
And when they had brought them, they set them before the council, and the high priest asked
them, saying, Did not we straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name?
And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's
blood upon us.
Then Peter and the other apostles answered, and said, We ought to obey God rather than
men.
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew, and hanged on a tree.
Him hath God exalted with his right hand, to be a prince and a savior, for to give repentance
to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
And we are his witnesses of these things, and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath
given to them that obey him.
When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them.
Then stood thereup one in the council, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in
reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space,
and said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as
touching these men.
For before these days rose up Theodos, boasting himself to be somebody, to whom a number of
men about four hundred joined themselves, who was slain, and all as many as obeyed him
were scattered and brought to naught.
After this man rose up Judas of Galilee, in the days of the taxing, and drew away much
people after him.
He also perished, and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone.
For if this council, or this work be of men, it will come to naught.
But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it, lest happily ye be found even to fight against
God.
And to him they agreed, and when they had called the apostles, and beaten them, they
demanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted
worthy to suffer shame for his name.
And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus
Christ.
Chapter 6 And in those days, when the number of the
disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because
their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.
Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason
that we should leave the word of God and serve tables.
Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you, seven men of honest report, full of the Holy
Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.
But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word.
And the saying pleased the whole multitude, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith,
and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Tymon, and Parmenes, and
Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch, whom they set before the apostles.
And when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
And the word of God increased, and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly.
And a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.
And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.
Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called the synagogue of the libertines,
and Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.
And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake.
Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against
Moses and against God.
And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and caught
him, and brought him to the council, and set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth
not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law.
For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and
shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.
And all that sat in the council, looking steadfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face
of an angel.